Automated Enumeration
Each operating system contains
a wealth of information
that can be used for further attacks.
However, collecting this detailed
information manually
can take a lot of time.
Fortunately, we can use various
scripts to automate this process.
On Windows, one such script is
windows-privesc-check.
Running the executable with the -h
flag displays the help menu.
This tool accepts many options.
Let’s list information about the
user groups on the system.
We’ll use the –dump option to view output,
and -G to list groups.
The script successfully executes
and provides us with
information about the
groups on the system.
Similar to windows-privesc-check
on Windows targets,
we can also use unix_privesc_check
on UNIX derivatives such as Linux.
We can view the tool help by running
the script without any arguments.
According to the help menu, the script
supports “standard” and “detailed” mode.
The standard mode appears to
perform a speed-optimized process.
We will use the standard mode and redirect
the output to a file called output.txt.
The script performs numerous checks for
permissions on common files.
For example, the following section
reveals configuration files
that are writable by non-root users:
This shows that anyone on the system
can edit the /etc/passwd file!
This is quite serious because it allows
attackers to easily elevate their privileges
or create user accounts on the target.
Although these tools perform
many automated checks,
keep in mind that every
system is different,
and some system changes will often be
missed by these types of tools.
For this reason, it’s important to
watch out for unique configurations
which can only be caught
by manual inspection.